# Project Justification

With multiple members of staff, over multiple shifts controlling the flow of planes, it becomes increasingly more difficult to track the amount of planes at the airport and the amount of space presently available. Without a system tracking these things it is possible for planes to be allowed to land when there is no space available to manage them or for planes not at the airport to be erroneously recorded as having took off from it. This can be complicated further if there are multiple runways being controlled simultaneously. Properly set up this system will allow members of staff in departments to maintain live reporting and updated information about the flow of planes into and out of the airport.

The purpose of this software is to assist in controlling the flow at an airport. It will be able to inform Air Traffic controllers if there is space available so they can instruct a plane to land confident there will be capacity for it. It will allow the Air traffic controllers to allow a plane to take-off, confident that the plane is in the airport to take-off from. Knowing that circumstances can change on a day to day basis, the capacity of the airport will be adjustable to take into consideration unforeseen issues as well as for planned expansion.

In addition, by linking the system into the weather monitoring system it would be possible to ensure air traffic controllers know when the weather has become too hazardous to allow for take offs and landings.

It should be noted that while this software will assist with the flow of planes at an airport, it is relying upon the staff at the airport using it, for it to work as intended. Accuracy is dependant on the data supplied. It should be considered a management tool to assist staff and not a replacement for a human operator.
